New Update Strategy only when workload changes in ManifestWork (#133)
open-cluster-management-io/enhancements: enhancements/sig-architecture/132-work-update-only-when-spec-change/README.md

the field to be updated back by the work-agent.
- [issue 690](https://github.com/open-cluster-management-io/ocm/issues/690) is the case that user wants
to create a deployment using manifestwork, but what HPA on the spoke the control the replicas of the deployment.
Hence the user wants the work-agent to ignore the replicas field of the deployment in the manfiestwor if it is
set.

## Proposal

We would like to introduce new options in `Update` and `ServerSideApply` update strategy to resolve the above issue.
So user can set the option in the manifestwork, so when another actor on the spoke cluster update the resource. The
work-agent will ignore the change and not try to change the resource back. On the other hand, when the resource spec
defined in the manifestwork is updated by the user, the work-agent will still update the resource accordingly. In
summary, the option is to ignore the change triggered from spoke cluster only.

In addition, in `ServerSideApplly` strategy, we would also introduce a new `ignoreDifferences` options similar as what
is defined in argoCD (https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/user-guide/diffing/). Such that user can choose to not

> let work-agent patch certain resource fields.

Reviewer: This will also be able to resolve the zero creationTime in metadata problem, right?

### Design Details

#### API change

The change will be added into the `updateStratey` field. For `Update` strategy, we will add an option

```go
type UpdateConfig struct {
    // OnSpokeChange defines whether the resource should be overriden by the manifestwork it is changed
    // on the spoke by another actor.
    // +kubebuilder:default=Override
    // +kubebuilder:validation:Enum=Override;NoOverride
    // +kubebuilder:validation:Required
    // +required
	OnSpokeChange string `json:"onSpokeChange,omitempty"`
}
```

For existing `ServerSideApply` strategy, we will add:

```go
type ServerSideApplyConfig struct {
	...
	// IgnoreFields defines a list of json paths in the resource that will not be updated on the spoke.

> 	IgnoreFields []string `json:"ignoreFields,omitempty"`

Author: yes, so when something changes in ignoreFields in the mw, the work-agent will not update resource all the time.

> 	IgnoreFields []string `json:"ignoreFields,omitempty"`

Reviewer 2: I still don't quite understand, will IgnoreFields ignore OnSpokeChange? No matter OnSpokeChange is Override or NoOverride, changes on the manifestworks will not updated to the spoke? why do we need the `OnSpokeChange` for `ServerSideApply`?

	// OnSpokeChange defines whether the resource should be overriden by the manifestwork it is changed
	// on the spoke by another actor.
	// +kubebuilder:default=Override
	// +kubebuilder:validation:Enum=Override;NoOverride
	// +kubebuilder:validation:Required
	// +required
	OnSpokeChange string `json:"onSpokeChange,omitempty"`
}
```

#### agent implemntation

When work-agent identity that the `OnSpokeChange` is set `NoOverride` for a certain resource in the `ManifestWork`, the agent
when apply the resource to the spoke cluster will add an annotation with the key `open-cluster-management.io/object-hash`.

> The value of the annotation is the computed hash of the resource spec in the `ManifestWork`. Later when another actor

Reviewer 3: > The value of the annotation is the computed hash of the resource spec in the `ManifestWork`
The `spec` here is not just the resource's spec field but the entire resource object right?
For the case of ArgoCD Application `operation` field. If I need to perform another `operation` what is the recommended method to do that? Is it adding an annotation to the Application resource? Thanks!

Author: right, it is the the whole resource payload also include metadata and other fields.

updates the resource, the work-agent will at first check if the object-hash mismatches with the current resource spec

> in the `ManifestWork`. If it is the same, the resource will not be updated so the change from spoke is ignored. When

Reviewer 4: Should we explain the behavior of "Delete" when `OnSpokeChange` is set to `NoOverride` here? It seems when the resource is deleted, object-hash is removed and the resource will be applied again?

Author: the resource itself will be deleted, so does the annotation. The annotation will be kept if the deleteOption is Orphan, and in this case, I do not think we need to remove the annotation.

the resource in the manifestwork is updated, the annotation will not match which then trigger the work-agent to update.

To handle the `IgnoreFields` for `ServerSideApply`, we will remove the fields defined in the `IgnoreFields` and then
generates the apply patch. The objec-hash will also be computed considering the `IgnoreFields`. 

#### examples

> To resolve issue 642, user can set the manifestwork with `OnSpokeChange` set to `NoOverride`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To resolve [issue 631](https://github.com/open-cluster-management-io/ocm/issues/631), user can set the manifestwork with `OnSpokeChange` set to `NoOverride`
```

```yaml
apiVersion: work.open-cluster-management.io/v1
kind: ManifestWork
metadata:
  namespace: <target managed cluster>
  name: hello-work-demo
spec:
  workload: ...
  manifestConfigs:
    - resourceIdentifier:
        resource: secrets
        namespace: default
        name: some-secret
      updateStrategy:
        type: Update
        update:
          onSpokeChange: NoOverride
```

> To resolve issue 670, user also can do the same for argocd application.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To resolve [issue 670](https://github.com/open-cluster-management-io/ocm/issues/670), user also can do the same for argocd application.
```

```yaml
apiVersion: work.open-cluster-management.io/v1
kind: ManifestWork
metadata:
  namespace: <target managed cluster>
  name: hello-work-demo
spec:
  workload: ...
  manifestConfigs:
    - resourceIdentifier:
        group: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
        resource: application
        namespace: default
        name: application1
      updateStrategy:
        type: Update
        update:
          onSpokeChange: NoOverride
```

> To resolve issue 690, user can set like:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To resolve [issue 690](https://github.com/open-cluster-management-io/ocm/issues/690), user can set like:
```

Hence the user wants the work-agent to ignore the replicas field of the deployment in the manfiestwor if it is
set.

## Proposal

We would like to introduce new options in `Update` and `ServerSideApply` update strategy to resolve the above issue.
So user can set the option in the manifestwork, so when another actor on the spoke cluster update the resource. The
work-agent will ignore the change and not try to change the resource back. On the other hand, when the resource spec
defined in the manifestwork is updated by the user, the work-agent will still update the resource accordingly. In
summary, the option is to ignore the change triggered from spoke cluster only.

In addition, in `ServerSideApplly` strategy, we would also introduce a new `ignoreDifferences` options similar as what
is defined in argoCD (https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/user-guide/diffing/). Such that user can choose to not
let work-agent patch certain resource fields.

### Design Details

#### API change

The change will be added into the `updateStratey` field. For `Update` strategy, we will add an option

```go
type UpdateConfig struct {

>     // OnSpokeChange defines whether the resource should be overriden by the manifestwork it is changed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // OnSpokeChange defines whether the resource should be overridden by the manifestwork once it is changed
```
